{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 TrebuchetMS-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red231\green240\blue245;\red76\green123\blue175;
\red16\green63\blue118;\red255\green255\blue255;\red16\green63\blue118;\red231\green240\blue245;\red16\green60\blue134;
\red198\green0\blue50;\red251\green0\blue7;\red218\green230\blue239;\red44\green117\blue199;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c92549\c95294\c96863;\cssrgb\c36471\c56078\c74118;
\cssrgb\c6275\c32157\c53725;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c6275\c32157\c53725;\cssrgb\c92549\c95294\c96863;\cssrgb\c6667\c31373\c59608;
\cssrgb\c82745\c6667\c25490;\cssrgb\c100000\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c88235\c92157\c94902;\cssrgb\c21176\c54118\c82353;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Some testing of BeebEm5 for none game use on a MacBookPro running Catalina (10:15:7)\
\
Installation from here:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/CommanderCoder/BeebEm"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 https://github.com/CommanderCoder/BeebEm}}\
No issues with the.zip file, however, I've dropped the 3 files into a copy of my BeebEm4 (renamed to 5) folder that holds all my setup/configuration settings. First question: is this the correct way to set up?\
\
\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl\strokewidth60 \strokec0 PROBABLY NOT:  The emulator expects to be in the 'applications' folder and when it executes it grabs files from the 'resources' folder within the application.\
\
This is likely undesired behaviour; if the user wants to have a different emulator for each folder of files, then this won't work.  However if the emulator is supposed to be self contained then this is expected.  I can revert to the one BEEBEM per user folder; or I can have it as an application which the use can select a FOLDER to start the application in.  Then changing this folder changes the setup easily.  Maybe even setup some shortcuts.\
\
\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
There doesn't seem to be an up-to-date version number - or am I looking in the wrong place?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb6 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl\strokewidth60 \strokec0 I'm not quite sure what the version number is ; it is somewhere between version 3 and version 4.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 BeebEm5 setup as:\
Master 128, Acorn 1772, 'ROM write' from 0 to 7 (this setting doesn't save!), Hard drive on - Configured to ADFS (File 13) - Speed set to 50 fps (I found this the most stable e.g. \
dropping the least number of key presses.\
\
\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl\strokewidth60 \strokec0 Hard Drive not tested\
The version I used (version 3) didn't save ROM write settings!\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
When you load a disc there's no indication that it's loaded! I mention this as once I load a .ADF disc then *. I get a "Broken directory" message - *MOUNT 0 doesn't produce an error message, however *. still produces "Broken directory". Changing to DFS (*DISC) then *. gives "Bad FS map".\
\
I have had a .adf disc running, however, it seems to be hit and miss! Another route. Configure to DFS - RESET (from the Menu) - Load a .adf disc to drive 0 - *ADFS - *. produces a "Disc fault 18 at 00/00" message. I haven't been able to mount a hard drive, as yet!\
\
I can configure to DFS - RESET - load a .ssd - *. and all is OK.\
\
*ROMS produces a list, as expected, however, changing the file "Roms.cfg" has no effect on the list.\
\
Missing keyboard entries. Typing at any speed I see dropped entries at random times.\
\
Speed setting don't seem to work and has a big influence on fps! Running a FOR-NEXT loop gives the same "TIME" at any speed! Setting the speed to 100 shows "Speed: (about) 1.xx fps: "1"\'a0\'a0\'a0. . .\'a0\'a0\'a0Setting the speed to 1.1 shows "Speed: (about) 1 fps: (around) 20.\
\
Until ADFS and hard drives are working I'm unable to do more testing. Anything you'd like me to test?\
\
Dave H.\
\
https://stardot.org.uk/forums/viewtopic.php?p=303021#p303021\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri3600\sl375\sa90\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://stardot.org.uk/forums/viewtopic.php?p=303021#p303021"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs30 \cf7 \cb8 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec7 \uc0\u8234 Re: BeebEm Mac - Info}}
\f1\b\fs30 \cf9 \cb1 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec9 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl364\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb8 I've had a look at the bugs and I inadvertently didn't set up the 'diskimgs' to copy to the Resources folder. This is why the hard drive doesn't work. I think your problems with ADFS with the hard drive enabled are an artefact of this. Try *MOUNT 4 to mount the ADFS drive.\cb1 \
\
\cb8 The ROMS.CFG isn't working because I made a change to the way in which I expected BeebEm to be installed. I was half way between having BeebEm5 as an application in the Applications folder; and having BeebEm5 as an executable that you can copy to your own user folder. Traditionally, it was the latter. If I continue with the former, I'll have to add a preference setting that sets up which folder it should use to get user files. I could require them in a $HOME/.beebem folder I suppose. I think I'll switch it back to being an executable as normal for the time being.\cb1 \
\
\cb8 The romwrite settings aren't saved because there weren't saved in the Mac version that I used to start the conversion. It appears to be somewhere between version 3 and version 4.0 of BeebEm. I'll look at utilising the latest Windows version of BeebEm for the core system; but that depends upon how tightly woven it is to Windows.\cb1 \
\
\cb8 I'll keep at it and let you know when the update is available.\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\qc\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://stardot.org.uk/forums/posting.php?mode=quote&f=4&p=303187"}}{\fldrslt 
\f3\b\fs24 \cf10 \strokec10 \uc0\u8232 }}
\f2\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf11 \cb12 \strokec11 I've had a look at the bugs and I inadvertently didn't set up the 'diskimgs' to copy to the Resources folder. This is why the hard drive doesn't work. I think your problems with ADFS with the hard drive enabled are an artefact of this. Try *MOUNT 4 to mount the ADFS drive.\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl364\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb12 Sorry still no hard drive working. If I load Disc0 with an .adl file: I can mount 0 or 4 and see that disc, however, no hard drive.\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl364\partightenfactor0
\cf11 \cb12 \strokec11 I'll keep at it and let you know when the update is available.\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl364\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb12 Thanks - Dave H.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb8 With BeebEm 5 running on MacOS 11 I seem unable to mess around with the keyboard layout.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb12 Possible keyboard input issues with "BeebEm5" on macOS 11.0.1 Big Sur:\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://stardot.org.uk/forums/viewtopic.php?p=310666#p310666"}}{\fldrslt \cf13 \strokec13 \uc0\u8234 viewtopic.php?p=310666#p310666}}\cf13 \strokec13 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
}